README.md, before:

# React + Express No-Fluff Boilerplate

Sample change

A boilerplate project for anyone interested in making a project that uses React and Express.

This repository is a bootleg of @NimaBoscarino's [React Rails Boilerplate](https://github.com/NimaBoscarino/react-rails-boilerplate). It uses the same React app, but replaces the Rails server with an Express server.

Note! This boilerplate has _no fluff_! That means that there's nothing set up for you to do authentication stuff, there's no Redux stuff, and there's no React Router stuff. On the Express end, there is no session storage or database connection.

The main important bit is that the React project has `proxy` set to `localhost:8080` in the `package.json` file, and that the Express app listens to port 8080 in `server.js`. Take a look!

You can (and perhaps should) rename the directories `express-back-end` and `react-front-end` if you want-- The name doesn't matter.

## Running the projects

You need **TWO** terminal windows/tabs for this (or some other plan for running two Node processes).

In one terminal, `cd` into `react-front-end`. Run `npm install` or `yarn` to install the dependencies. Then run `npm start` or `yarn start`, and go to `localhost:3000` in your browser.

In the other terminal, `cd` into `express-back-end`. Run `npm install` or `yarn` to install the dependencies, then `npm start` or `yarn start` to launch the server.

In the browser, you can click on the button and see the data get loaded.

If this doesn't work, please message me!

## Next steps

From here, you can start working on your project!

As soon as the dependencies are installed, your Express server can serve JSON and static assets (like images) in response to API calls from the React app. You can get started on developing your React app, routing plan, etc. right away! Any request that isn't handled by React is passed on to the Express server. That means that you can call a route like `/api/users` from React using `fetch`, `axios`, or something else, and Express will receive it as though they originated from the same app. For routing, best practice is to namespace all of your data routes to `/api`, so that they don't clash with other routing schemes, like React Router.

At some point, you'll likely want to install and configure a database driver for Postgres or MongoDB-- Refer to past projects for hints on how to do this.

And don't forget to update the README!

## Example Projects

You might want to look at examples of projects that have used this boilerplate for hints on how to extend it. Here are a few:

* [Later Cart](https://github.com/bonitac/later-cart)
* [Buddi.io](https://github.com/Danny-Tran/buddi.io)

If you'd like your project added to the list, please shoot me a message.

## Contact

Please contact me on Slack (@garrettgsb) or Nima at `nima@lighthouselabs.com` if you have any questions, requests, or feedback, or post an issue to this repo. If you are using the boilerplate, I'd love to hear from you as well!

Commit message:

Update readme, and minor change to landing page, comments in activitycard

README.md, after:

# WeGo React Web Application

WeGO helps connect individuals and teams around real-world and online recreational activities. It accomplishes this by allowing users to find and join posted activities, and also to post their own activities for others to join. Activities display the current participants skill level, remaining players needed, location, and other useful information to help match the right people together for the right activity. 

## Key Features

- Real time chat between activity hosts and users
- Chat notifications
- Activity notifications
- Advanced activity filtering
- Join, create, update, or delete activities
- Sign up for an account
- Creating new activities displays an autogenerated relavent photo matching your activity tags
- Signing up randomly assigns unique and nifty avatars to users
- Accept or deny pending participants
- Remove accepted participants
- Geolocation


# React + Express No-Fluff Boilerplate

Sample change

A boilerplate project for anyone interested in making a project that uses React and Express.

This repository is a bootleg of @NimaBoscarino's [React Rails Boilerplate](https://github.com/NimaBoscarino/react-rails-boilerplate). It uses the same React app, but replaces the Rails server with an Express server.

Note! This boilerplate has _no fluff_! That means that there's nothing set up for you to do authentication stuff, there's no Redux stuff, and there's no React Router stuff. On the Express end, there is no session storage or database connection.

The main important bit is that the React project has `proxy` set to `localhost:8080` in the `package.json` file, and that the Express app listens to port 8080 in `server.js`. Take a look!

You can (and perhaps should) rename the directories `express-back-end` and `react-front-end` if you want-- The name doesn't matter.

## Running the projects

You need **TWO** terminal windows/tabs for this (or some other plan for running two Node processes).

In one terminal, `cd` into `react-front-end`. Run `npm install` or `yarn` to install the dependencies. Then run `npm start` or `yarn start`, and go to `localhost:3000` in your browser.

In the other terminal, `cd` into `express-back-end`. Run `npm install` or `yarn` to install the dependencies, then `npm start` or `yarn start` to launch the server.

In the browser, you can click on the button and see the data get loaded.

If this doesn't work, please message me!

## Next steps

From here, you can start working on your project!

As soon as the dependencies are installed, your Express server can serve JSON and static assets (like images) in response to API calls from the React app. You can get started on developing your React app, routing plan, etc. right away! Any request that isn't handled by React is passed on to the Express server. That means that you can call a route like `/api/users` from React using `fetch`, `axios`, or something else, and Express will receive it as though they originated from the same app. For routing, best practice is to namespace all of your data routes to `/api`, so that they don't clash with other routing schemes, like React Router.

At some point, you'll likely want to install and configure a database driver for Postgres or MongoDB-- Refer to past projects for hints on how to do this.

And don't forget to update the README!

## Example Projects

You might want to look at examples of projects that have used this boilerplate for hints on how to extend it. Here are a few:

* [Later Cart](https://github.com/bonitac/later-cart)
* [Buddi.io](https://github.com/Danny-Tran/buddi.io)

If you'd like your project added to the list, please shoot me a message.

## Contact

Please contact me on Slack (@garrettgsb) or Nima at `nima@lighthouselabs.com` if you have any questions, requests, or feedback, or post an issue to this repo. If you are using the boilerplate, I'd love to hear from you as well!
